# v2.0.0

**Work in Progress**

## New Features

- Added new overloads for many functions of Adiar's API that use [1] (pure) label predicates, [2] (stateful) label generator functions (coroutines), and [3] iterators. For example, `bdd_exists` is now overloaded with the following alternatives
  - `bdd_exists(f, pred)`: quantify all variables *i* in *f* where *pred(i)* evaluates to true.
  - `bdd_exists(f, gen)`: quantify all variables *i* generated by *gen()*. Here it is important that *gen()* provides the variables in descending order.
  - `bdd_exists(f, begin, end)`: quantify all variables *i* from *begin* to *end* (assuming these are sorted in descending order).
- In a similar way, functions that create non-diagram outputs, e.g. `bdd_satmin(...)` and `bdd_varprofile(...)`, now take a *consumer* function as an argument, such that they are compatible with any data structure you desire.
- `adiar_set_domain(...)`
  Add overload to set domain given a number of variables, a *generator function*, or an *iterator*.

## Optimisations

- The `access_mode` enum has been added as a new global setting. If set to *AUTO* or to *Random_Access* then `bdd_apply`, `zdd_binop`, and their derivatives will use random access on one of the input (if possible). This circumvents using an entire priority queue, thereby drastically improving performance. This is especially beneficial when applying an operator to a very large decision diagram together with a narrow one.
- Added proper algoritms for the quantification of multi-variable quantificiation. To this end, there are now three separate algorithms. The `quantify_mode` enum can be used to pick what algorithm to use (the default is a heuristic that picks between all three algorithms)
  1. The *v1.x* approach of quantifying a single variable at a time still persists (`quantify_mode::Singleton`).
  2. The *v1.x* algorithm has been generalized to (partially) handle multiple variables at once in a single sweep (`quantify_mode::Partial`). Furthermore, this generalized sweep can be rerun on its own unreduced result (skipping the possibly costly and unecessary Reduce sweep).
  3. Implemented the *nested sweeping* framework to add support for an I/O-efficient simulation of BDD operations that (may) recurse on intermediate results. This provides a completely new multi-variable quantification operations that is similar to the one in other BDD packages (`quantify_mode::Nested`).

## Bug Fixes

- The result of `adiar_stats()` is now fixed such that the values for *reduce* and *substitute* are correct.
- Many small fixes to make Adiar compile with GCC, Clang, and MSVC on Linux, Mac, and Windows. Simultaneously, we have now set up continuous integration, such that we can truly ensure we support all platforms.

## Breaking Changes

There has been a major rewrite of the internal logic of Adiar to pay off technical debt and to get Adiar ready for implementing the I/O-efficient version of the much more complex BDD operations. At the same time, this also brings Adiar much closer to support other types of decision diagrams (e.g. QMDDs) and to store BDDs on disk and loading them again later.

- All internal logic in *<adiar/internal/...>* has been moved into its nested namespace `adiar::internal`. If you use anything from this namespace (e.g. the *node* and the *node_writer* classes) then you are not guaranteed non-breaking changes.
- Fundamental data types in *<adiar/data.h>* have been moved to each their own file (most of which are placed in the *<adiar/internal/data_types/...>*). These have been converted from C-like structs with manipulating functions to C++ (immutable) classes. That is, the entire interface for *node*, *arc* etc. have completely changed.
- Files, streams and their writers have been moved, rewritten, and renamed.
  - They have been moved to *<adiar/internal/...>*, leaving *<adiar/file.h>* only to expose the public parts of the API.
  - If you have been using a *label_file* or an *assignment_file* you should now use the *shared_file\<T\>* template instead. To read from it use the *file_stream\<T\>* and to write use the *file_writer\<T\>*.
  - The *node_file* class is replaced with the *adiar::internal::shared_levelized_file\<node\>*. You can read from it with the
*adiar::internal::node_stream* and write to it with the *adiar::internal::node_writer* as before. But, we highly encourage you to transition over to using the *adiar::bdd_builder* and *adiar::zdd_builder* instead.

That is, this rewrite only results in breaking changes if you have been interacting with Adiar's files directly, e.g. you have used the `bdd_restrict`, `bdd_exists`, `bdd_forall` functions or have created BDDs by hand with the *node_writer*.

Other breaking changes are:

- `zdd_ithvar(i)`
  - The semantics have been changed to be more akin to the BDD semantics. That is, `zdd_ithvar(i)` is the set of all bitvectors where *i* is true. Symmetrically, the `zdd_nithvar(i)` function has been added.
  - The original semantics of `zdd_ithvar` is still provided with the `zdd_singleton` function.
- `bdd_satmin(f)` and `bdd_satmax(f)`, resp. `zdd_minelem(A)` and `zdd_maxelem(A)`:
  - The return type when called without a *callback function* has been turned into a `bdd`, resp. `zdd`. This ought to make their return type more usable in a symbolic context.
  - Semantics has been changed if the global domain has been set. If so, then it will return the assignment to the variables in the domain rather than specifically the levels present in the BDD.
- Every deprecated function from *v1.x* that was moved to *<adiar/deprecated.h>* has been removed.
- The two-level granularity of statistics has been removed. If you want to compile Adiar with statistics you just have to set the CMake variable `ADIAR_STATS` to *ON*; the CMake variable `ADIAR_STATS_EXTRA` has been removed as its highly detailed statistics is now included within `ADIAR_STATS`.

## License
Adiar 1.0.0 is distributed under the MIT license. But, notice that it depends on the TPIE library which is licensed under LGPL v3. So, by extension any binary file of Adiar is covered by the very same license.


# v1.2.2

**Date: 14th of November, 2022**

## Bug Fixes

- `zdd_project(A, dom)`
  An accidental swapping of arguments for a helper function resulted in the generated recursion requests are for the wrong elements and hence the wrong ZDD was constructed.

- Fixes C++ and CMake such that Adiar compiles and runs on Mac computers with default Clang.


# v1.2.1

**Date: 14th of September, 2022**

## Bug Fixes

- `adiar_printstats()`
  Makes sure to print levelized priority queue statistics, when only the unbucketed priority queue has been used.

## Deprecations

- *adiar/bdd.h*
  - `output_dot(bdd f, std::string file_name)` -> `bdd_printdot(bdd f, std::string file_name)`
- *adiar/zdd.h*
  - `output_dot(zdd A, std::string file_name)` -> `zdd_printdot(zdd A, std::string file_name)`

## Binary Decision Diagrams

- `bdd_satcount(bdd f)`
  If the global domain is set, then that value will take precedence over the number of levels in *f* (assuming *f* has fewer levels than the domain claims to exist).
- `bdd_printdot(bdd f, std::ostream out)`
  Added to allow more flexibility when outputting DOT files.

## Zero-suppressed Decision Diagrams

- `zdd_printdot(zdd A, std::ostream out)`
  Added to allow more flexibility when outputting DOT files.

## Documentation

Instead of separate Markdown files, the documentation is generated directly from the C++ codebase with Doxygen. You can generate the documentation (assuming Doxygen is intalled) with the `docs` Makefile target.


# v1.2.0

**Date: 29th of July, 2022**

## Performance

This new release's primary focus is to drastically improve performance for smaller instances. To this end, we still use the very same algorithms, but if the input is small enough then we can safely use purely internal memory auxiliary data structures within each algorithm. Prior to this version we could only guarantee up to a 4x performance difference compared to other BDD libraries when the largest constructed decision diagram is 113 MiB or larger (for benchmarks where the base cases are manually constructed, i.e. also have some considerable size). Now, we are able to now guarantee the same when the largest is only 3.2 MiB or larger!

## Domain

A *file<label_t>* can globally be set as the problem domain, i.e. the set of variables you are using.

- `adiar_set_domain(file<label_t> dom)`
  sets the global domain variable.
- `adiar_has_domain()`
  checks whether a global domain already is set.
- `domain_get()`
  provides the current *file<label_t>* that acts as the global domain (assuming `adiar_has_domain()` evaluates to `true`).

## Binary Decision Diagrams

### New Features

- `bdd_builder`
  is a new class to replace using the *node_writer* directly. This enables a much more natural construction of BDDs bottom-up by hiding away several details. Furthermore, it makes use of exceptions rather than immediately terminating assertions.
- `bdd_from(zdd A)`
  converts from a ZDD to a BDD using the global domain.
- `bdd_equal(bdd f, bdd g)`
  is an alternative to using the `==` operator.
- `bdd_unequal(bdd f, bdd g)`
  is an alternative to using the `!=` operator.
- `bdd_varprofile(bdd f)`
  obtains a *file<label_t>* containing all of the variables present in a BDD.

### Bug Fixes

- Results from `bdd_nithvar(label_t i)` and `bdd_ithvar(label_t i)`
  are now marked as *canonical* and so can be used with the linear-scan equality checking.
- Fixed the reduction phase may use 2 MiB more memory than is available.

## Zero-suppressed Decision Diagrams

### New Features

- `zdd_builder`
  is a new class to replace using the *node_writer* directly. This enables a much more natural construction of ZDDs bottom-up by hiding away several details. Furthermore, it makes use of exceptions rather than immediately terminating assertions.
- `zdd_complement(zdd A)`
  Complementation within the global domain.
- `zdd_from(bdd f)`
  Converts from a BDD to a ZDD using the global domain.
- `zdd_varprofile(zdd A)`
  Obtain a *file<label_t>* containing all of the variables present in a ZDD.

### Bug Fixes

- `zdd_ithvar(label_t i)`
  Is now marked as *canonical* and so can be used with the linear-scan equality checking.
- Fixed the reduction phase may use 2 MiB more memory than is available.
- DOT files are now with the terminals properly printed as *Ø* and *{Ø}*.

## Statistics

### New Features

- Statistics have been heavily extended with information on how often each type of auxiliary data structures (internal or external) have been used.
- All statistics variables are now fixed-precision numbers (using the [CNL library](https://github.com/johnmcfarlane/cnl)) making sure there are no overflows in the provided numbers.
- `adiar_statsreset()`
  resets all statistics values back to 0.

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed fine grained statistics (`ADIAR_STATS_EXTRA`) are turned on even though only the coarse-grained statistics (`ADIAR_STATS`) was desired.

## Deprecations

The word *sink* has been replaced with the word *terminal* that is more commonly used in the context of decision diagrams.

- *adiar/data.h*
  - `create_sink_uid(bool val)` -> `create_terminal_uid(bool val)`
  - `create_sink_ptr(bool val)` -> `create_terminal_ptr(bool val)`
  - `create_sink(bool val)` -> `create_terminal(bool val)`
- *adiar/bdd.h*
  - `is_sink(bdd f)` -> `is_terminal(bdd f)`
  - `bdd_sink(bool val)` -> `bdd_terminal(bool val)`
- *adiar/zdd.h*
  - `is_sink(zdd A)` -> `is_terminal(zdd A)`
  - `zdd_sink(bool val)` -> `zdd_terminal(bool val)`

## Breaking Changes

The *terminal predicates* `is_any`, `is_true` and `is_false` with the prior `is_sink(zdd A, pred)` functions were too complicated. The above performance improvements allows us for a much simpler (and faster) implementation. Deprecation was not possible due to name conflicts with their replacements below.

- *adiar/data.h*
  - `is_sink(ptr_t p)`, `is_true(ptr_t p)`, and `is_false(ptr_t p)`.
- *adiar/bdd.h*
  - `is_sink(bdd f)`, `is_true(bdd f)` and `is_false(bdd f)`.
- *adiar/zdd.h*
  - `is_sink(zdd A)`, `is_null(zdd A)` and `is_empty(zdd A)`.


# v1.1.0

**Date: 25th of January, 2022**

## Zero-suppressed Decision Diagrams

Adds support for *zero-suppressed* decision diagrams with the `zdd` class. All operations on *ZDD*s are based on the family of sets semantics as in the original paper by Minato.

### Constructors
- `zdd zdd_sink(bool v)` (and `zdd_empty()` and `zdd_null()` as alternatives)
- `zdd zdd_ithvar(label_t i)`
- `zdd zdd_vars(file<label_t> vars)`,  `zdd zdd_singletons(file<label_t> vars)`, and `zdd zdd_powerset(file<label_t> vars)` to respectively construct an *and*, *or*, and the *don't care* chain.
- `zdd zdd_sized_set<pred_t>(file<label_t> vars, k, pred)` to construct the sets of variables in *vars* whose size satisfies the given predicate in relation to *k*.

### Basic Manipulation
- `zdd zdd_binop(zdd A, zdd B, bool_op op)` to apply a binary operator to two families of sets (also includes aliases for the _or_, _and_, and _diff_ operators).
- `zdd zdd_change(zdd A, file<label_t> vars)` to compute the symmetric difference.
- `zdd zdd_complement(zdd A, file<label_t> dom)` to construct the complement.
- `zdd zdd_expand(zdd A, file<label_t> vars)` to expand the domain with new variables.
- `zdd zdd_offset(zdd A, file<label_t> vars)` to compute the subset without the given variables.
- `zdd zdd_onset(zdd A, file<label_t> vars)`  to compute the subset with the given variables.
- `zdd zdd_project(zdd A, file<label_t> is)` to project onto a (smaller) domain.

### Counting Operations
- `uint64_t zdd_nodecount(zdd A)` the number of (non-terminal) nodes.
- `uint64_t zdd_varcount(zdd A)` the number of levels present (i.e. variables).
- `uint64_t bdd_size(bdd A)` the number of elements in the family of sets.

### Predicates
- `bool zdd_equal(zdd A, zdd B)` to check for set equality.
- `bool zdd_unequal(zdd A, zdd B)` to check set inequality.
- `bool zdd_subseteq(zdd A, zdd B)` to check for weak subset inclusion.
- `bool zdd_subset(zdd A, zdd B)` to check for strict subset inclusion.
- `bool zdd_disjoint(zdd A, zdd B)` to check for the sets being disjoint.

### Set Elements
- `bool zdd_contains(zdd A, file<label_t> a)`
- `std::optional<file<label_t>> zdd_minelem(zdd A)`
- `std::optional<file<label_t>> zdd_maxelem(zdd A)`

### Other Functions
- `output_dot(bdd f, std::string filename)` to output a visualizable _*.dot* file.
- `zdd zdd_from(bdd f, file<label_t> dom)` and `bdd bdd_from(zdd f, file<label_t> dom)` to convert between *BDD*s and *ZDD*s interpreted in the given domain.

## Statistics

Compile Adiar with `ADIAR_STATS` or `ADIAR_STATS_EXTRA` to gather statistics about the execution of the internal algorithms. With `ADIAR_STATS`, Adiar will record all statistics that only introduce a small constant time overhead to every operation. `ADIAR_STATS_EXTRA` also gathers much more detailed information, such as the bucket-hits of the levelized priority queue, which does introduce a linear-time overhead to every operation.

- `stats_t adiar_stats()` to obtain a copy of the raw data values.
- `void stats_print(std::ostream)` to print all statistics to an output stream.


# v1.0.1

**Date: 6th of September, 2021**

## Bug fixes

- `bdd_apply`:
  - Fix tuples have their ties on `std::min` or `std::max` not broken correctly. This resulted in that the same recursion request could potentially be handled multiple times independently, since all its "calls" ended up interleaving with other tied requests in the priority queues. This bug fix ensures the algorithm runs in quadratic time.
  - Slightly improve performance of some boolean operators. Most likely this is negligible.
- `bdd_counter`:
  - Fix returns trivially false cases as *true*.
- *CMake*
  - Now Adiar compiles with C++17 regardless of its parent project. This allows the user to omit the use of `set_target_properties(<target> PROPERTIES CXX_STANDARD 17)` in their own CMake settings.

## Changes

- `adiar_init`:
  - It now takes its memory argument in *bytes* rather than in *MiB*.
- *Equality Checking* (`==`): Improved performance from its prior *O(N<sup>2</sup> log N<sup>2</sup>)* time comparison.
  - If both given BDDs are *canonical* (definition: as it would be output by Adiar's *reduce* algorithm) and have the same value in their *negation flag*, then equality checking is done with a simple (and much faster) linear scan.
  - In all other cases the prior time-forward processing algorithm is used. But this one has been improved to be an *O(N log N)* time comparison algorithm. That is, equality checking is not only a constant improvement computing `~(f ^ g) == bdd_true()` but it is provably faster (both in terms of time and I/Os).


# v1.0.0

**Date: 25th of April, 2021**

## Binary Decision Diagrams

`bdd` class to hide away management of files and running the _reduce_ algorithm. This takes care of reference counting and optimal garbage collection.

### Constructors
- `bdd_sink(bool v)` (and `bdd_true()` and `bdd_false()` as alternatives)
- `bdd_ithvar(label_t i)` and `bdd_nithvar(label_t i)`
- `bdd_and(file<label_t> ls)` and `bdd_or(file<label_t> ls)` to construct an *and*/*or* chain.
- `bdd_counter(label_t min_var, label_t max_var, label_t threshold)` to construct whether exactly *threshold* many variables in the given interval are true.

Furthermore, the `node_writer` class is also provided as a means to construct a BDD manually bottom-up.

### Basic Manipulation
- `bdd_apply(bdd f, bdd g, bool_op op)` to combine two BDDs with a binary operator (also includes aliases for every possible *op*)
- `bdd_ite(bdd f, bdd g, bdd h)` to compute the if-then-else
- `bdd_not(bdd f)` to negate a bdd
- `bdd_restrict(bdd f, assignment_file as)` to fix the value of one or more variables
- `bdd_exists(bdd f, label_t i)` and `bdd_forall(bdd f, label_t i)` to existentially or forall quantify a single variable (also includes versions with the second argument being multiple labels in a `file<label_t>`).

### Counting Operations
- `bdd_nodecount(bdd f)` the number of (non-terminal) nodes.
- `bdd_varcount(bdd f)` the number of levels present (i.e. variables).
- `bdd_pathcount(bdd f)` the number of unique paths to the *true* terminal.
- `bdd_satcount(bdd f, size_t varcount)` the number of satisfying assignments.

### Input variables
- `bdd_eval(bdd f, assignment_file x)` computes *f(x)*.
- `bdd_satmin(bdd f)`, resp. `bdd_satmax(bdd f)`, to find the lexicographical smallest, resp. largest, satisfying assignment.

### Other Functions
- `output_dot(bdd f, std::string filename)` to output a visualizable *.dot* file.

## License
Adiar 1.0.0 is distributed under the MIT license. But, notice that it depends on the TPIE library which is licensed under LGPL v3. So, by extension any binary file of Adiar is covered by the very same license.
