\page page__getting_started Getting started

[TOC]

Dependencies
=========================

One needs a C++ compiler of ones choice that supports the *17* standard, such
as the *GNU*, *Clang*, and *MSVC* C++ compilers. The project also has
dependencies on the *TPIE* library, which itself has dependencies on the
*Boost* Library. Finally, the entire project is built with *CMake*.

Furthermore, to create the documentation files, you need the *Doxygen* tool.
Finally, the unit tests also verify the *dot* output generated by Adiar is
valid.

To install all of the above then run the respective command below.

| Operating System | Shell command                                                 |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Ubuntu 22+       | `apt install cmake g++     libboost-all-dev doxygen graphviz` |
| Fedora 36+       | `dnf install cmake gcc-c++ boost-devel      doxygen graphviz` |

Building with CMake
=========================

To get started with *Adiar*, you need to place the repository somewhere on your
machine. The simplest way to do so is to add it as a submodule inside of your
Git repository.

```bash
git submodule add https://github.com/SSoelvsten/adiar external/adiar
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Then include the following line in your project's *CMakeLists.txt*.

```cmake
add_subdirectory (external/adiar adiar)
```

Finally, every single executable target is linked to *Adiar* in the
*CMakeLists.txt* file with the following lines.

```cmake
add_executable(<target> <source>)
target_link_libraries(<target> adiar)
```

Usage
=========================

After having linked the C++ source file with *Adiar* as described above, then
one needs to include the `<adiar/adiar.h>` header, initialise the library before
use, and finally remember to deinitialise the library again before the program
terminates.

```cpp
#include <adiar/adiar.h>

int main()
{
  adiar::adiar_init(128 * 1024 * 1024);

  {
    // do your stuff here...
  }

  adiar::adiar_deinit();
}
```

In between, you can create and manipulate the \ref module__bdd and \ref
module__zdd decision diagrams.

\warning Before calling `adiar::adiar_deinit` you have destruct all of Adiar's
objects that you own, e.g. by letting them go out of scope with the `{` and `}`
braces shown above.

\warning One cannot reinitialize Adiar. That is, one cannot call
`adiar::adiar_init`, `adiar::adiar_deinit` and then `adiar::adiar_init` again
without getting undefined behaviour when running the algorithms.
